Currently the vertex buffer object data generator calculates the x and y coordinate of each vertex every layer.
Instead the vertices of one ring can be calculated and assigned onto the rest of the layers. After that, the vertex
data in each layer can be multiplied with the radius scaler (obtained by pitch trig calc) corresponding to that layer.
This would help with program start time especially if many verticesPerRing or particle types are used.

Since currently the only valid verticesPerRing input are powers of 2. There will be a even number of vertices
per ring. Since the algorytm calculates spacing between vertices by diving 2 pi radians by vertices per ring, 
there will be a duplicate set of absaloute values per vertex. So instead of calculating every vertex. The algorythm
could calculate just half the vertices with the trigomenetric functions. And mirror this half by flipping the 
sign of the values. This would slightly improve program start time especially if many verticesPerRings were
input or particle types are used. Howver I do not believe this performance boost is worth the loss of the current 
algorithms readablity.  

Currently the ebo generation functions work differently even though they can be refactored to all be a 
similar algorythm. This would help with readablity.

Currently the bufferObjects generation functions use unsigned ints or floats. This will cause problems if
there is a very large number of vertices per ring count. Even though the graphical fidelity of the spheres
would not change past a certain value of vertices per ring, The allowance of a value so large is a problem.
calculate a reasonable threshold and validate inputs. Also use unsigned long long/double types in the functions.

During developement, not much care was given to freeing dynamically allocated memory. Thus memory
leaks may occur. For example, the particleType class pointer pointer object may not be cleaned up
properly.

Currenlty GPU memory cleanup is handled soley by OS. Dynamic buffer objects will cause gpu memory
leaks.

Currently the border collision handler seems to loop around a set circuit

Current particle collision detection system is very expensive. It loops through ever member particle
and then compares it with every other member particle in another loop. Heavily increased overhead and
runtime offset.

Particles sometimes stick to eachother when they collide. This must be because the particele collisions
currently work in the present context. Move collision detection to take future context as input similar 
to border collision detection.

collision detection systems use expensive root functions. Minimize them.

If a particle spawns outside the border. It cannot get back in, constantly triggering border collisions
in the physics engine in a enldess loop.